### 2026-07-04
Added changelog.

---

### 2026-07-03
Open-sourced changes since 2023-12-04.

---

### Blueprint Editor 2025-05-06
- Fixed map previews in the welcome window overgrowing.
- Box expander should work better.
- "Only for RCD" now skips objects outside the ship, also it now affects Item & Mat list while the BP String window is open.
- Various other fixes.

---

### Blueprint Editor 2025-01-30
- Decreased the density of the background stars and fixed an issue where screen size affected the density. Slightly increased the size and probability of larger stars. Fixed an issue where the background was generating twice on load.
- Added **Asset Modification**: It works like the one in the game. Also works for images generated by the image exporter. I didn't test it on mobile but probably works.
([video](assets/changelog/2025-01-30.mp4))

---

### Blueprint Editor 2025-01-25
- The maps are now automatically saved (locally) and the current one will be loaded if you reload the same browser tab.
- Added a **Guide** window: A guide on how to use the app and what you can do. Can be opened using the `More > Guide` button.
- Added **Welcome** window: This will show up on startup unless you have a map saved for the session and when the current map is closed (using the new `File > Close Map` button).
  - It has buttons to open the guide, create a new map or load a blueprint string.
  - It has a list of **recently edited maps** with previews. Click a map to load it, or the cross button to delete.
- Improved the New Map window: Switching the units converts the input values, and the inputs are saved.
- Added **Hotbar**: This is just for changing the item to place. The slots are saved.
  - Left click or `0-9` keys: Select a slot.
  - Right click, `Ctrl+[0-9]` keys, double click or long touch: Change a slot.
- Added drag & drop ability for item slots. Mainly for the hotbar but also works with other item slots in the app.
- The slot showing the currently selected item no longer has the item rarity color.
- Added "None" button to the item picker.

---

### 2025-01-03
- Faster web server.
- Blueprint image generation is now about 3.5 times faster. (For Blueprint Bin and the Discord app)

### Blueprint Editor
- Compacted the window title bar.
- Pusher focuser now supports the history system.
- **Image Exporter**: Access via the File menu. [[image](assets/changelog/2025-01-03.png)] [[image2](assets/changelog/2025-01-03_2.png)]
- **Collaborate** (experimental feature): Access via the More menu. Simply, **multiuser** editor.
  Create a room and share ID/link to let others join. It is currently bare-bones, all I know is that line placement isn't supported. Connection issues are to be expected, some things are currently missing.
  - *Nothing* is stored on the server. There is a room owner system: the creator is the owner, but ownership may be transfered to another user if the owner disconnects. Only the owner can load a new BP.
  - [[video](assets/changelog/2025-01-03.mp4)] (In the video, TR->UK->TR)
- Various fixes and improvements.

---

### 2026-11-29
**Blueprint Editor**: `/bpeditor?load=<bp-string>` can be used to load the BP string from the URL. Mainly used for linking to the editor from the BP scanner menu by the [Simple Dredark Tools](https://discord.com/channels/266495196622094336/1037923108004315196) browser extension.

---

### Blueprint Editor 2026-11-26
- Added **Expansion Tester**: Simulate the expansion of an Expando Box and calculate its capacity.
  - Shows a blue box for the expansion area. Rendering for an expanded box may be added in the future.
  - The expansion may stop unexpectedly in some cases, but not so important. I'll try to fix it later.
  - I haven't tested the capacity calculation much, but it seems to work well, is off by 1 in some cases.

---

### Blueprint Editor 2026-11-25
- Added **Line Placement**: Hold the Shift key with the Place tool to place objects in a line. Also hold the Alt key to lock the line angle based on the first two objects for a *straight* line. Currently can't be used without the keys. Access method may change in the future. [[image](assets/changelog/2026-11-25.png)]
- Adjusted pusher beam speeds to look better.
- Added support for Door, Launcher and RCD configuration. Fixed rendering for Doors and Launchers.
- Output blueprints now exclude items that aren't supported by the RCD, which can be toggled.

---

### Blueprint Editor 2026-11-07
- The non-selected choice elements used in the config menus now have a darker color (filter modes etc.).
- Windows now move to the front upon click.
- The New Map window now shows the area in zone tiles that a ship of the selected size can fit into.
- Cleaned up the BP window a bit, and removed the defaults for blank fields.
- Added notification boxes. Currently used when copying the blueprint string.

---

### Blueprint Editor 2026-11-02
- Added **Blueprint Export Tool**: Just like the BP scanner in the game.
- Added a new all-in-one blueprint string window, which currently works for both the map and the export tool. [[image](assets/changelog/2026-11-02.png)]
  - The sorter is now moved here and includes a checkbox to toggle sorting unspecified items by ID.
- Added the ability to change the build direction (only up-down). It is in the bp string window.
  - Possible to specify items to be built in reverse direction.
- Added **Pusher Focuser**: Access via the More > Special menu. Currently doesn't support the history system. [[gif](assets/changelog/2026-11-02.gif)]
- Right-clicking with the Place tool now functions like the Eraser tool. It was possible to add this since accidentally opening configs with left-click is prevented.
- Double clicking outside the crop box now cancels it as an alternative to ESC.
- Double clicking to place an object will now open the config of the placed object.
- Output blueprints should be very similar to the ones from the game now.
- Some cursor updates, and the object highlight with the Eraser tool is now red.
- Compacted the design of the windows a little.
- Many other various fixes and improvements.

---

### Blueprint Editor 2026-10-04
- Changed the Select tool shortcut key from S to Q.
- Added: WASD and arrow keys for dragging the map.
- Fixed output blueprints having partly wrong build directions in some cases.
- Fixed a positioning issue that could occasionally cause the RCD to get stuck. Apparently the RCD hates Y=0.925.
- A few minor other fixes.

---

### Blueprint Editor 2026-10-01
- Added an advanced **Find - Replace** feature. It allows searching for item types with conditional configurations and replacing with one item with partial configuration. Some other options are also available. Supports the history system. Access via the Edit menu or `Ctrl+F/H`. 
- Added **List of Items & Materials**. Access via the View menu.
- Added building information (sizes, RCD cost etc.) to the Blueprint String window (B).
- Added **Get Sorted Blueprint String**. Basically a copy of the `Sort by Item` operation in bptools, but works with the map. Access via the File menu.
- Various fixes and improvements.

---

### Blueprint Editor 2026-08-07
- Added Load & Place Blueprint feature: Loads objects and places them in the middle of the map.
  - Access via the Edit menu. - If there is text on the clipboard, `Ctrl+Shift+V` opens this window and pastes the text.
  - Supports the history system.
- Most windows (e.g. item picker) can now be dragged and will save their positions.
  - Click and hold the title bar to drag the window, and double-click to reset its position.
- The editor now displays the confirmation dialog when leaving the page if there is anything in the history and the current BP string isn't the last thing copied.
- Changed the app's icon with a new one.
- Added a loading indicator with text that appears during app updates, editor loading and blueprint/map loading.
- The app update indicator now appears at the beginning of the download rather than at the end.
- Fixed: Zooming/dragging on mobile deselects objects, and some other issues with selection.

---

### Blueprint Editor 2024-08-08
- Added Rotate and Flip features: Similar to the other editor, with a few fixes.
 - Access via the menu bar (`Edit | Map > Transform > ...`). `Edit` for transforming selected objects and `Map` for transforming all objects and map dimensions.
 - Supports the history system.
- Added keyboard shortcuts for the tools: 
 - Select: S, Place: F, Eraser: E, Crop: T
 - Additionally, hold F to open the item picker and release it to close.
- Added a basic "Loading" dialog that appears while the editor loads.

---

### Blueprint Editor 2024-07-29
- Added cutting function: Copy+delete operation. Access using Ctrl+X or the menu bar.
- Added undo, redo, cut, copy, paste, duplicate, delete items to the menu bar. Allowing the duplicate operation on mobile.
- Added keybinding info to the menu bar.
- Replaced the reset zoom button with a menu bar item.
- Moved the item picker to the left bar.
- Moved the undo/redo buttons to the left bar and made visible only on mobile.
- New keyboard shortcuts: 
 - Ctrl+D: Duplicate selected objects
 - Ctrl+S: Copy blueprint string
 - N: Open/close the New Blueprint dialog (because Ctrl+N can't be used)
 - B: Open/close the Blueprint String dialog

---

### Blueprint Editor 2024-07-28
- The user interface has been changed a lot.
  - Includes a proper way to create a new blueprint.

Some more UI/UX work needs to be done. Adding new features to the UI is now much easier.

---

### Blueprint Editor 2024-07-20
- The Select tool can now configure objects either by double clicking or right clicking.
  - Removed the old select tool.
- Added object duplication feature: Copy and paste selected objects using Ctrl+C/V, or duplicate objects by dragging them while holding down the Alt key. This is currently not touch supported.
- The eraser tool no longer erases on mouse release, fixing the issue where it deletes twice.

Re-rendered all 191 blueprints stored on the BP Bin (for the new textures). The previews are 3.7MB smaller and took at least 1 minute less to render, for whatever reason.

---

### 2024-07-13
**Blueprint Tools**: Added "open in new tab" hyperlinks above previews

---

### 2024-07-13
**Blueprint Editor**: Added pusher beam rendering.

---

### Blueprint Editor 2024-07-08
- Updated the cannon textures and added the Fixed Cannon and Logistics Rail.
- Added support for the new ejector placement.
- Fixed selection and moving on mobile.
- Cropping can now be applied by double-clicking on the crop box, which also works on mobile.
- Fixed a few other things.

---

### 2024-07-02
### Blueprint Editor
- Fixed some issues with the file caching system.
- Fixed: Copy-pasting square shape doesn't work.
- Fixed: Changing block shape to the same shape is added to the history.
- Fixed a visual bug with changing points of a loader (was introduced in the previous update).
- It is now possible to drag the viewport while selecting. After dragging, you need to click to end the selection.
### Blueprint Tools
- The flip operation now supports shield generators.
- The rotate operation now supports object configurations and block shapes.

---

### Blueprint Editor 2024-06-25
- New, **Crop** tool: Select a rectangular area using the mouse, then press the Enter key to crop it.
 - The selection box can be resized using the mouse.
 - Allows expanding or shrinking the ship. It doesn't move hull mounted objects when expanding, but I may add that.
 - Only the outlined objects will be kept after cropping. A cyan box indicates the new ship dimensions: it snaps to the grid, expands to fit the included objects, and shows the length of each edge.
 - Shows a grid outside the ship to help selecting outside.
 - Supports the history system.
- Selected objects can now be deleted by pressing the Delete key. It supports the history system.
- The reset zoom function now also moves to the ship.
- Fixed: Item picker history allows repeated items and doesn't show item tooltips.
- Fixed a ton of issues (mainly related to collisions and positioning), and made some improvements.
- Updated the toolbox a bit and renamed the Remove tool to the "Eraser tool".

The crop tool in the other editor has now been replaced with the ability to crop and delete multiple objects. I'm not focusing on mobile support for now.

---

### Blueprint Editor 2024-06-15
- **New** "Select" tool + object selection + moving multiple objects:
  This new tool allows you to select multiple objects in a way similar to classic graphic editors and your desktop.
  It can also move objects, replacing the old move tool. Currently, selected objects can only be moved.
  - Objects must be completely inside the selection box to (de)select them. Holding the Ctrl or Shift key allows you to start selection on an object instead of moving it.
  - It has modifier key functions (Ctrl, Shift) to add to selection, remove from selection, and invert selection.
  - Moving a single object works just like before. Moving multiple is different; it doesn't collide with other objects and allows invalid objects. (Reminder: invalid objects [shown in red] are excluded from the blueprint string).
  - The snapping of moving objects depends on the content. For example, when moving fabricators, they snap only along the Y-axis.
  - Moving multiple objects supports the history system.
- Holding down left click to place objects no longer opens the target object's config when released (only if at least one object was placed).
- Fixed some graphics related memory leaks.
- Many other fixes and improvements.

The old select tool is still there, but only used for configuring objects. I plan to somehow move the config ability to the new tool. 
These were needed for very advanced tools 🙂

---

### 2024-06-11
Created a Discord app that allows you to preview blueprint strings in any server or DM, along with some additional info. [[video](assets/changelog/2024-06-11.mp4)]

https://discord.com/oauth2/authorize?client_id=887791547624591391

---

### Blueprint Editor 2024-05-14
- New, **Undo/Redo System**: With buttons and shortcuts (`Ctrl+Z`, `Ctrl+(Shift+Z / Y)`).
  It supports object creation, object deletion and object configuration in an efficient way. Loading a new BP clears the history.
- A few minor fixes, including a mobile one that caused it to remove the selected object when switching to the remove tool.

---

### Blueprint Editor 2024-05-08
- It now shows RCD build cost.
- It now shows resources needed to craft the blueprint contents.
- It now has blueprint previews, for the input and result.

---

### 2024-04-26
Blueprint Editor now shows the amount of turrets that can fit in the blueprint area and the resizing needed for a starter ship.

---

### 2024-04-25
Added Sort by Item operation to the Blueprint Tools.

---

### 2024-04-22
### Blueprint Editor and Bin
- The renderer now supports hull mounted items, all of them.
- Improved the code: A little more performance, and more maintability.

### Blueprint Editor
- It now supports hull mounted items.
- Fixed an issue with expando box placement.
- Some UI fixes.

To change the ship size, type 10x10 in the BP input...

---

### Blueprint Editor 2024-03-24
Mobile focused, should be much more accessible on mobile.
- All the top menu buttons now use a symbol without any text.
- Fixed scroll blocking for mobile to hopefully prevent unintentional scrolling of the page while using the editor.
- For smaller screens: Added a hamburger button that toggles the blueprint input and information thing. They are hidden by default.
  - The page can be scrolled freely if this is toggled on.
- For smaller screens: Menus now cover the screen width, rather than being positioned off-screen.
- Moved the reset zoom button to the top right corner of the editor map, out of the top menu.
- Menus can now be scrolled if they are too big.
- The menu close buttons are now a little bigger and have an extra clickable area.
- Touches intended for scrolling will no longer open tooltips, for example, in the item picker.
- It is now possible to open tooltips by long-touching (closed on release). Works with the item picker, so it won't pick.
- Fixed selecting a non-straight grab & drop path in the loader config menu on mobile.

---

### Blueprint Editor 2024-03-22
- New, **Move** tool: It is used to move placed objects. It has physics and can teleport the object to the pointer or near it.
- Added the ability to select an item from a placed object by middle-clicking it. Also copies its config (unless CTRL is held down) and switches to the Place tool.
- It no longer interacts with the map while using multi-touch (zooming and dragging on mobile).
- It now starts loading all item images as soon as the page loads.
- Fixed some issues with precise positioning of certain objects.
- Fixed a bug introduced in the previous update that caused some wrong configs in the output BP.
- Other various smaller improvements and fixes.

---

### 2024-03-16
### Blueprint Editor 
- Added highlighting for objects whose config is being modified.
- Added highlight effect for config copy/paste operations on objects.
- Changed the default hover highlight color to green.
- Adjustments to mouse button handling to make things more familiar and simpler.
  - Right clicking with place tool now only places and never opens a config. Current way to place without config mess.
  - Left clicking with place tool can now open a config.
  - Right clicking with remove tool can now open a config.
- Releasing the R key now closes the config menu.
- Fixes to touch handling.
- Fixed: Ctrl+C to copy wouldn't update the currently open clipboard config menu.
- Fixed: Tooltips weren't closing on mobile in some cases.
- Moved hatches to the end of the output blueprints. (Applies to the other editor too)
### Blueprint Bin
- Fixed: Hatches were rendered over expando boxes if they were placed afterward.

---

### Blueprint Editor 2024-02-28
- All of the config menus are now complete. [[image](assets/changelog/2024-02-28.png)]
- Added a shake effect for when attempting to apply an invalid config.
- There is now one clipboard for blocks, rather than one for each block type (to maintain consistency with the game for ease).
- Various fixes and enhancements.

---

### Blueprint Editor 2024-02-20
- Added Item Picker
 - Selecting the item to place uses it
 - Item filters in the config menus use it
- Changed the top menu to include an item slot and tool buttons
- Prevented placing multiple shaped blocks in a single square

---

### Blueprint Editor 2024-02-14
- Added the ability to config an item before placing it. R key or the button to open. [[video](assets/changelog/2024-02-14.mp4)]
- Added the config clipboard system, it is pretty similar to the game. Ctrl+C/V works too, but there are no indicators of copying/pasting with the keys yet.
- Right clicking can be used to open the config of an object because left click doesn't always do so intentionally.
- Properly blocked scrolling the page while hovering the editor.
- As always, other random improvements and fixes.

---

### Blueprint Editor 2024-02-10
- Added a *basic* object configuration system: The interfaces are just a bunch of number/text inputs but they are fully functional. It prevents configurations that would result in invalid objects. It allows changing shapes of already placed blocks. It is not yet possible to change the config before placing an item, or to copy/paste.
- Non-supported machines (e.g. after breaking the block under a helm) are now shown in red and excluded from the blueprint.
- Added a select tool that doesn't place or break objects.
- The editor now resizes with the browser window.
- Some other random improvements.

---

### 2024-02-01
Added first demo of the blueprint map editor. [[video](assets/changelog/2024-02-01.mp4)]

---

### 2023-10-27
Added stats and more stuff to Blueprint Bin.

---

### 2023-10-08
- Added Blueprint Bin, with very bare-bones rendering.
- Added a homepage instead of redirecting to blueprint tools.

---

### 2023-09-13
- Rework, converted to a PWA with caching.
- Added blueprint editing tools (crop, flip, rotate, replace items).

---

### 2022-10-06
Created DSA Tools with just the Image to Pixel Art tool.
